---
title: 00 - Assignment
author: Ondrej Unger
date: 2022-09-09
category: Assignment
layout: post
---

## The Task

### Description

**Write an HTTP server.** You can choose to implement it either in **Python** or **Go**. The server
should serve one endpoint:

```python
/api/smart
```

Requirements for the endpoint:

- The endpoint performs up to 3 HTTP requests to the Exponea Testing HTTP Server
  and returns the first successful response.
- Instead of firing all 3 requests at once, the endpoint fires only a single request at the
  beginning.
    - If there is a successful response within 300 milliseconds, the endpoint returns
      this response and does not fire other requests.
    - If there is no successful response within 300 milliseconds, it fires another 2
      requests. Then it returns the first successful response from any of the 3
      requests (including the first one).
- The endpoint accepts a timeout parameter - an integer value specifying time in
  milliseconds. The endpoint always returns a response within the given timeout. If the timeout is not specified, the
  endpoint should respond with the first successful response from our testing server.
- If there is no successful response within this timeout, the endpoint returns an error.

### Notes

- The endpoint returns a JSON response.
- A successful response is defined as a response that returns HTTP status code 200
  and has a valid payload.
- Your endpoints should return a JSON response that will contain successful responses from Bloomreach
  testing server.

### Bloomreach Testing HTTP Server

The _Bloomreach Testing HTTP Server_ serves a single endpoint:

```python
GET https://exponea-engineering-assignment.appspot.com/api/work
```

It performs some work (taking roughly 100-600 ms) and then returns the time it took to
respond as a JSON response. Example response:
`{“time”: 160}`

Note: The server is not very reliable , which means that it does not always return a
successful response.

### What we seek

- Performance - we expect that the requests to ExponeaTesting HTTP Server will be
  done concurrently. We will test how your server implementation behaves under load -
  both in terms of requests per second, and the number of concurrent requests.
- Robust implementation - your server should behave correctly in presence of
  errors. Exponea Testing HTTP Server is infamously known for being unreliable.
  Also, the implementation should not leak resources (stuck threads / goroutines /
  connections for unknown time).
- Readable, maintainable implementation - for example, prefer well-known open
  source libraries, with licenses that allow them to be used commercially.

### If you want to shine...

Is the task too easy for you? Don't worry, we have prepared a few extras for you:

- Write tests for your implementation.
- Instrument your code with tools that will make debugging production easier - logging,
  monitoring, tracing. We need a way to check if Bloomreach Testing HTTP Server is
  behaving well in production.
- Include Dockerfile that can be used to build and run the server.
- Attach a discussion about code behavior - knowledge cases, how it behaves in certain
  conditions, performance characteristics, resource requirements, etc. How many
  concurrent requests can the server handle? How would you protect the server against
  being overloaded?

